this is a video of the photoelectric
effect the final electric effect is
probably the best simple demonstration
that we have that shows light as a
particle
why is it interesting well all
throughout junior school you probably
taught that lights a wave it exhibits
all the usual properties of waves
apparently it to fracks it reflects it
refracts it can interfere with itself
these properties are typically
associated with waves Young's twin slit
experiment is the experiment that shows
that lights able to interfere with
itself destructively and constructively
waves interfere constructively and
destructively so if Y interferes
destructively and constructively if it's
able to superimpose upon itself to
create light bands and dark bands
fringes that are more bright and less
bright that seems to be proof positive
but lights a wave it was Einstein who
first explained how light using a
particle he didn't get his Nobel Prize
for his special theory of relativity or
his explanation of gravity through the
general theory of relativity he got his
Nobel Prize for the work that he did in
order to show light is a particle he was
able to explain a particular experiment
an experiment performed by Robert
Millikan
Robert Millikan his experiment is the
one I'm going to do today if you're
studying ID physics this is the
experiment that you may well be asked
questions about in an exam it's the
experiment that you need to have a deep
understanding of it's an experiment you
need to be able to perform the
calculations for interpret the graphs of
and at least be able to identify some of
the most significant features of this
experiment in order to be able to mount
the argument
line is a particle and not a wife this
is the photoelectric effect apparatus it
looks like a little box that's got dials
and switches on it and it also has this
meter and the meter is labeled
photocurrent it's actually a combination
voltmeter ammeter what we can notice
about the photoelectric effect box is
that it's not connected to any power
source unlike my actual councils over
here which are using life which is
plugged in to the electricity the
photoelectric effect apparatus contains
inside of it a vacuum tube which we
can't send the vacuum tube is hidden
deep inside the box so that Y does not
get into it why should that be of
concern the vacuum tube has a piece of
metal inside of it and coated on that
piece of metal is some cesium which is
extremely reactive that cesium metal is
kept inside the vacuum tube so that it
does not come into contact with the air
intake never did come into contact with
air it would spontaneously combust in
the fliers and our experiment will be
over now if you look at this diagram
here what you can see is the internal
workings of our photo tube
so I'm going to place the light that is
attached to the power supply
once I've switched it on so that light
is now coming here onto the back oh our
photoelectric device is enioy light is
now passing through the gap if I turn
off the power you can see the light goes
out goes on what goes off at the front
nothing much is happening I have my back
in voltage turned up turned down to the
middle there is the device here is a
schematic image looking in to the inner
workings of the photoelectric effect
device
notice here we have the light the light
is illuminated by incandescent light
source and so the beam is approximately
continuous in its spectrum in other
words all the colors of the rainbow the
light passes through an aperture key a
gap into which we can put different
color filters once it enters the photo
tube area there is a vacuum tube the
vacuum tube is called a vacuum tube
because it is literally a vacuum there's
no matter in terms of a inside of a
vacuum tube it's been evacuated
this curved surface here is the cathode
the cathode is coated with a
particularly reactive metal and the
middle of the chosen is cesium in
chemistry cesium is a group one metal
which means it's extremely reactive at
the level of the atom what that means is
it is quite easy to remove electrons
from an atom of cesium ceasing being one
of the most reactive of all the group
are metals main cities are particularly
easy for cesium to lose those outermost
electrons in fact we're going to see in
our experiment today
it only takes a light to remove some of
those electrons so here we have the
cathode the cathode is the surface from
which the electrons will be emitted and
they will migrate towards the anode the
anode is positively charged this might
be different to what you're learning in
chemistry but remember in chemistry the
anode is the place where oxidation
occurs so simply trying to remember that
one of them is positive and one of them
is negative can sometimes lead you
astray especially if you are considering
the differences between galvanic cells
and electrolytic cells here in physics
it's best to dish recall that the
cathode is the place from which the
electrons are moving away so the
electrons move away from the cathode and
they move towards the anode when we're
performing this experiment the only time
when electrons should leave the cathode
surface and travel towards the anode is
when a light is shining if there's no
light shining then nothing should happen
to the metal you might think after all
absent anything else a lump of metal in
out of space without any light source
around should simply sit there shouldn't
there's no oxygen the cause of the
corrode there's no water
salt of course to rust imagine we have
no other material whatsoever
we literally have just a pure piece of
caesium there's no matter around it in
the vacuum of outer space now we
introduce some light what should happen
you might think nothing should happen
and that could be a reasonable
assumption after all lights and waves so
perhaps it just causes the lump of metal
to heat up what actually happens is that
electrons are emitted from the surface
of the metal and we can detect those how
where you put them in a circuit you put
the lump of metal in a circuit and you
would try and detect those electrons as
those electrons left of the circuit that
could be attracted to water wire the
wire could be in series with a voltmeter
of galvanometer or some sort if there's
a deflection shown in the needle of the
voltmeter on the galvanometers know that
you have a potential difference you know
that you have a current flow into the
detect electrons flowing from the
surface of a metal when it is struck by
light now the classical theory of light
is that lights are wave and so if you
seek to explain what's going on at the
level of the atom when light strikes the
atom causing electrons to be released
you've run into some difficulties the
first difficulty is that you might think
lights of life then what's happening is
that the wave energy is being absorbed
by the electron why is a continuous more
or less and so if they're continuous and
you have this continuous wave coming
towards an electron which then captures
the energy what's the effect on the
electron well one of three things might
happen
number one the electron gains some more
energy and so it should move further
away from the nucleus
if it gains still more energy it moves
still further away from the nucleus if
you give it enough energy it should move
so far away from the nucleus that that
it has escaped the atom and we say that
the atom has been ionized at that point
that's the explanation the problem is
that if that were true then any
wavelength of light at all
apply to a metal surface for long enough
should cause the emission of electrons
so once again we know that different
colors of light have different energies
we know that red line has less energy
than what blue line does in fact there
are wavelengths shorter than blue and
our wavelengths longer than red and so
the continuous electromagnetic spectrum
extends all the way from gamma rays with
hugely high energies down to radio waves
which have wavelengths are meters and
even kilometres long and have extremely
low energies now the fact that electrons
are emitted from the surface of a metal
when struck by light is rather strange
if we consider the wave theory of light
then what's going on is that the
electron is gradually absorbing the
energy until such time as it achieves
sufficient energy to escape from the
atom now if that were true if lights a
wave if the electron is able to
continuously absorb radiation then what
should occur is the ejection of
electrons from the surface of metals at
any frequency at all it just might take
a bit longer and so for example if you
have infrared radiation or even radio
waves then those radio waves are
infrared radiation all that might those
microwaves should strike the surface of
metal and cause
to pour electrons emitted from the
surface to reach an anode different
frequencies of life have this property
of having different energies and so one
would expect that if you shoot some
high-energy light towards a metal
surface the electrons that come off that
surface will have energies which depend
upon the wavelength of light that you
used so blue light having the highest
energy when it is shone into a metal it
should cause the ejection of photons
with a higher energy than what saying
red light should produce we should be
able to measure the differences in
energy of these electrons how might we
do that if we look again they are photo
chip you what's physically happening is
that light in the form of photons is
striking the cathode and then electrons
from that cathode migrate towards the
anode if you were using red light the
energy with which the electrons from the
cathode migrate towards the anode should
be less than what they would be or the
energy that they would have should be
less then if you were using blue light
blue light has more energy so the
collision between a photon of blue light
and an electron around a cesium atom
even that cathode should be more
energetic with the blue compared to the
red how can we measure the energy of
those photo electrons as were going to
call them a photo electron is just an
electron that has been caused to leave
the atom around which it was constrained
how can we measure the energy of such
electrons well what we actually do in
this experiment is we apply a potential
difference to the anode the anode is
normally
positively-charged the cathode is the
negatively charged methyl negatively
charged because that's where the
electrons leave from now if we make the
anode ever so slightly negative as well
then an electric field is created around
the anode which repels those electrons
that are leaving the cathode now there
must be some minimum voltage that you
need to use that you need to apply to
the anode such that it just stops the
most energetic of the electrons leaving
the cathode service it's easier to
measure the potential difference the
electric field that you need it's easier
to measure the voltage that you need to
apply to the anode in order to just stop
those photo electrons arriving from the
cathode and so that's what the
photoelectric device does it enables you
to increase the voltage on the anode
that's the experiment that we're about
to do we're going to use four different
wavelengths of light firstly a regular
filter the red filter allows a number of
different photons to pass through a
range of wavelengths but the shortest
wavelength that can pass through this
filter has been measured by another
experiment and it turns out that it's
612 nanometers at 612 times 10 to power
of minus 9 meters we'll also use an
orange filter 566 nanometers a yellow
filter at 492 nanometers and finally a
blue filter the most energetic of which
the most energetic photons that can pass
through this blue filter have a
wavelength of
a hundred and twenty eight nanometers so
let's begin the experiment now so once
again here's our photoelectric effect
device inside of which is the vacuum
tube and once more it's not connected to
any power I've just put it on a box so
we can more easily zoom in to where the
actual current meter and the volt meter
happens to be and so we can read that
scale here I've got a light attached to
the power pack and if I switch on the
power pack we get light if I bring the
light over to where the photoelectric
device is it can shine into the agree
window and the rear window there is a
little hole in the back and there's the
hole
yeah I haven't yet turned the power of
my switch here is set to amps so it's
going to be measuring the current my
backing voltage meter is set to minimum
my meter sensitivity is sent to minimum
I'm closing the window of the top here
and I'm now going to hit the power
switch and we'll see if we see any
movement whatsoever in the meters
current so let's see if the needle moves
even at all if I switch the power on and
it does we can see it ever so slightly
move now why would that be well remember
at the rear of this device we've got a
window and the window is just a little
hole through which light can enter and
the light entering in there is actually
causing the photoelectric effect so
again let's just see what happens when I
switch the power back to the off
position we get a deflection and on and
it moves up off let's see if I block of
the reading with my hand so if I just
put my hand over the back to stop the
light from getting in now and let's
perform the same experiment maybe a less
less of a deviation when I switch it on
let's turn the meter sensitivity up now
right to maximum the power is on and I
can see quite a bit of current
relatively speaking entering the device
now again I'm going to put my hand at
the back and cover you can probably just
see my hand they're covering the rear
window and it goes down to the null zero
position zero current and off some light
is getting in the back
notice that the rear here is white a
white surface search reflecting some of
the light from outside here is my light
source we would expect that as the light
source is brought towards the window
we get quite a bit of deflection let's
see and yes up it goes that demonstrates
the photoelectric effect the light is
shining onto metal and as it shines onto
the metal electrons are emitted from the
metal surface that current is detected
here by this device by an extremely
sensitive and meter the only that goes
down to nano amps it's extremely
sensitive
we have no route no reason in this
experiment to actually measure the
current similar devices which are
digital devices very similar to this one
can give you a measurement for the car
but we'll just be measuring the voltage
you know in other words the energy of
the electrons so now let's actually
begin the experiment so we can graph
some values the aim of this room by then
to determine the value of Planck's
constant I'm going to turn the
sensitivity of my meter back to the
minimum position
I'm now going to take my light source
and they're the to the rear and insert
it into the slot
and we notice that the needle has moved
quite a bit because a lot of light is
now shining in there my meter
sensitivity has turned way down okay so
that's on minimum sensitivity now
without any filter in there whatsoever
the first experiment I'm going to
perform or the first investigation I may
perform is what happens when I apply a
voltage to the anode so I start to make
the anode more negative remember the
only reason that we're detecting a
current here at all at the moment is
because electrons are flowing from the
cathode to the anode from a place where
the electrons are being emitted due to
the light towards the anode which is
effectively positively charged and so
there's a migration of electrons from
negative to positive
so now only I take that anode and I'm
going to add some electrons to that
anode and when those electrons move to
that anode by me forcing them into that
mo and by the way how does that happen
that happens because we've got a battery
inside of this device
it's a 9-volt battery and so we can turn
up the voltage of we can change the
value of a resistor which allows some of
the electrons from that battery to go
into the anode causing the anode to be
negative so then you're basically having
the negative electric field of the other
fighting against electrons coming from
the surface of the caesium so let's see
that happen now I'm going to move the
backing voltage dial around and as we
can see the current goes down perhaps I
should have asked you to make a
prediction of what would happen but
common sense I suppose down goes the
current and we can reduce the current
all the way
zero and in fact I can make the current
ever so slightly below zero although
right now the perspective of my camera
it doesn't appear to be okay so there we
are so if ever so slightly below zero
exactly on zero I'll move my dial back
and you'll be able to see around about
precisely their roundabout precisely
precisely there we have zero current
flowing so the anode and the cathode
have the same charge cathode has more
electrons coming from it a node has more
electrons coming from it and so there's
actually a reverse voltage now the
ideally the electrons are flying from
the anode to the cathode have to apply
quite a bit of voltage in order for that
to happen okay so now let's with plane
plane that's with white light in other
words all the colors of the spectrum
heading into the back of the photo shoot
so now let me turn the backing voltage
back up to maximum to stop the flow of
electrons and so it looks like it's at
zero but my leader sensitivity is down
to minimum meter sensitivity by the ways
the meter sensitivity effectively
changes the range of that gauge from an
ammeter to a milli ammeter to a
micrometer all the way down to a nano
ammeter
so now let me take the first of my
filters the red filter and the red
filter is going to fit in the window
here into a slot and now the light that
is coming from the light at the back
here which is white as it goes in passes
through the filter and comes out red the
most energetic of which photons have a
wavelength of 512 learn meters close the
window the reason for that is it stops
any extraneous light from getting into
the experiment and will go back to where
dials there's no current flowing so
let's turn the meter sensitivity back up
to maximum and now let's reduce the
backing voltage
so now we have car flying from the
cathode to the and if I turn it all the
way down to minimum and meet a
sensitivity on maximum then I have some
car now I don't know what that current
is because the dial isn't in hasn't
given me a scale in terms of units for
the current the scale is in backing
volts DC so we won't worry about the
back in volts DC just yet all we know is
according to that scale some amount of
current has been produced I need to turn
up the backing voltage until such time
as I have precisely zero current on the
gauge so let's do that
zooming in I'm going to be moving this
dial around here like that
causing the needle to move down towards
the zero position and we're getting
close there to the gauge turning the
voltage down and more
until we are exactly as much as we
possibly can with an analog scale having
the needle reading the zero it's around
there I imagine if I go any further the
needle moves ever so slightly below the
zero line so I want it to be exactly on
zero and without any parallax error so
it's hard for the camera to be perfectly
in line I've done my best it's about
there and so that is the point at which
now zero current is flowing so the most
energetic photons aren't making it
through and I also don't have any
electrons flowing from the anode to the
cathode in the reverse direction this
meter provides both a an idea of what
the current is namely if it's positive
or if it's negative perfect zero but it
is also used as a voltmeter in a handle
as well as an Emmy so now if I switch to
vaults it's going to tell me how many
volts of electricity I had to apply to
the anode in order to stop the flow of
electrons from the cathode so let's do
that now and there we are let's read
that scale know how the scale numbers
actually have a mean we can see the
number zero point five then we can see
the zero notice the big divisions one
two three it's almost at four here we
have to guess but we make an educated
guess we can see it's between three
point five and four but I can see it's
closer depending upon your perspective
you have to avoid parallax error you
need to look right above the needle so
it's hard for the camera
but from my perspective I can tell that
it's extremely close to the fall much
further from the three point five so I'm
going to guess it's very close to three
point eight and so three point eight
sorry he's zero so it's very close to
zero point three eight so zero point
three eight volts is the potential
difference I needed to apply to the
ammos to just stop the flow of electrons
from the cathode that means that because
I've got zero current flowing at zero
point three eight volts the most
energetic of all the electrons that were
flowing from the cathode to the anode
also had an energy of 0.38 volts so
that's what I'm going to write down in
my records 0.38 volts for red let me do
now the other three filters using the
same procedure I'll remove the red
filter red filter is going and put in
the orange filter
same procedure as before I will move the
dial back to measuring current we have a
positive current being measured
let me turn up the backing voltage until
such time as I get precisely zero
reading on the dial and switch back to
voltage and notice now that the reading
is 0.67 0.67 depending upon your
perspective 0.67 0.384 read 0.67 for
orange next yellow 492 nanometers
switched to current turn the backing
voltage up until I get 0 reading on the
ammeter so turn that till I get 0
current on the ammeter switch the
voltage read the voltage 0.6 0.7 almost
point-eight I'm going to say 0.79 and
move on to fine little blue a blue
filter the 428 nanometers
into the divisive guys once more switch
to current increase the voltage once
more until we get zero current switch
back to voltage and read 1.19
and we've completed the readings we now
need to we now need to record these
readings we need to graph them and then
we need to interpret what our graph is
telling us about reality but to do that
so to recap the liners interred through
into the photo tube where electrons have
migrated from the cathode to the anode
we turned up the voltage on the energy
to stop that flow of electrons the
voltage required in order to stop those
electrons tells us how energetic those
electrons are different wavelengths of
light caused different energy electrons
to be emitted from the surface nobody
electrons with greater kinetic energy
let's move on to our spreadsheet of
results i've really filled this one in
but let's explain how we got there
firstly the speed of water because i'm
going to have to work out the frequency
of my photons of light that are coming
in and i've been giving information
about the wavelength i want to use the
equals f lambda velocity of a by using
for the frequency times the wavelength
where the velocity is the velocity of
light i do not want to use an
approximation i want to use the exact
value of the speed of light the speed of
light is defined to have an exact value
so this isn't even approximately what
the speed of light is this is exactly
what the speed of light is you can't say
that about any constants some constants
we need to measure this one we don't so
the family the speed of light is
299,792,458 meters per second
next we have four color filters red with
a wavelength of 612 nanometers in other
words 612 times 10 to the power minus
nine I entered that into this
so it's this number divided by 10 to the
power of 9 that gave me zero point zero
zero zero six one two meters now the
speed of light divided by that number
gives me the frequency and you can see
the form where I keep the frequency
white rego by the light is four point
eight nine eight five seven times ten to
the power of 14 Hertz now when I put
that red filter in I did the experiment
and I read the diamond I said to you
that the Donald reading was zero points
for you hey folks
that's how I got that road so the car
like that one name in red and they want
to orient our engine 566 nanometers
required 0.67 volts you know to stop the
electron flow yellow required zero point
seven nine volts and blue back to one
point one nine volts now what can I do
with this data like a plot a graph or
frequency against back in voltage why I
don't want to do that well let's go back
to our photo shoot when photons of line
strike the middle surface they can cause
electrons to do stuff like well the
first thing that might happen is that
the photon can cause the electron turn
from one energy level to another so
think of hydrogen he has only one
electron then it actually has an
infinite number of energy levels and
Internet number of places way the
electron can orbit the nucleus it's just
that those places are typically
unoccupied think of them as athletics
tracks an athletic track goes in roughly
a circle if you're coming on your own
perhaps you're on the occupier of one of
the lines but the other lines are still
there and so with a piping matter all
the other lines are there but only one
of occupy in more complicated atoms
multiple energy levels model planes are
occupied so if you excite an electron it
can move into an occupied lane or an
unoccupied line but once it's in one of
those other lines that it doesn't
normally occupy
once it's in an energy level higher
minutes what we call ground state it's
unstable and it can fall back down in a
meet light between the process but for
our purposes here today all we need to
see is what are the possibilities for
another Tron once it absorbs a thousand
of marks one possibility is nothing
happens
another possibility is it moves up and
energy event
another possibility is it moves up
multiple energy modes and finally the
possibility we're most interested in is
that it escapes from the antenna all
together the energy required to remove
an electron from an atom altogether in
chemistry we sometimes call the
ionization energy in physics we're going
to use the term work function the work
function is the energy involved
electron from the surface of the metal
to a cat over a week to an animal where
we detect it so once again the work
function is the energy required in order
to completely remove an electron from
the surface of a metal if we well might
fall back to the metal the King it might
be attracted back to the metal from
where it can or it won't have enough
energy to leave the cathode vibrator the
waiting a minute we're interested in the
ones that do make it all the way to unit
so given that sound situation my son's
radiator site was to say the peak energy
depends upon the frequency the interview
with both one depends upon its frequency
make it depend upon his frequency
depends upon its frequency how well he
said they directly proportional and so
if they're directly proportional there
needs to be a constant of
proportionality if the constant of
proportionality is one and if so the
systems in physics you can guard as one
then you would say that just e equals F
but now we are working in SI units and
so for that reason we work a lot deeper
man we need a consonant
so yeah let's use the letter H this
formula e equals H J is the energy of a
photon
now our photons that we're using in our
experiment today strike the metal
causing electrons to be emitted which
then travel with some velocity towards
the anode and so the energy of the
photon goes into them causing the
electron to leave the surface of the
metal and we're going to call that
energy required the work function done
but that's not all that the photon does
the photon doesn't only cause the
electron to leave the service level it
also travels some distance to the
element in other words it has some
kinetic energy as well and that kinetic
energy is measuring electron volts it's
some amount of kinetic energy
remembering the physics that the
electron Bob is a measurement of energy
it's equivalent to the dual it's just
much smaller
I can rearrange this equation such that
B V is equal to H F minus W now I can
divide through by the charge on an
electron to get B equals H multiplied by
F minus W over B this formula now that's
inside of this pink box is on the form y
equals MX plus B we've taken readings
for V the backing voltage and we've
taken from the filters we've been using
the wavelength which gave us a frequency
so we've got a Y and we've got x-axis
how cool is it that the M is H over a we
know is we can look down at a book but
from a graph of V against if we can
figure out what hechas this is called
Planck's constant a constant of
proportionality which is the most
important of all the constants in
quantum physics Planck's constant tells
us that there is only discreteness to
light the light being pure energy
doesn't occur in continuous streams
it's made up of
and the difference between one packet of
the links cannot be smaller than
Planck's constant we're going to see
that Planck's constant is an extremely
small number indeed but however small it
is it's not infinitely small and so you
can have single particles of light
what's the significance of this it makes
that quantum physics is telling us that
what we think of as continuous phenomena
around us are actually lumpy now if you
have a piece of metal
perhaps the chair that you're sitting on
has metal legs notice that the middle
feels continuous you can't tell that
it's made up of lumpy patterns of let's
say on but there's a smallest piece of
oh man what does that matter
looking against an atom of iron you can
technically chop in a car but you do not
have iron atoms anymore you have
something other than iron
once you've divided the nucleus you've
divided that substance into something
new it wasn't thought that things like
light will like this but it turns out
life is like this light can't be
infinitely divided up either but it gets
worse Planck's constant tells us that
energy and even time can't be infinitely
divided up the different a quantum
theory seriously as a description of
reality at its deepest you can't divide
up space infinitely longer if you can't
divide our time and space infinitely
that means that from one moment to the
next
it's night continue a stream of time
rather time is more like a movie
it's discrete and there's a smallest
possible unit of time so just like
frames in a movie which although they're
24 times a second sent by fast and
continuous to us we know the bomb out of
discrete still pictures it might be that
the universe is like this but don't be
too concerned yet there's another theory
the general theory of relativity the
general theory of relativity explains
what gravity is this was also discovered
by Einstein but the general theory of
relativity says that space and time are
continuous that you can infinitely
divide them up that space is infinitely
divisible
there's no smallest unit of space it's
required by general relativity that
space and time be continuous because of
the mathematics that is done in order to
explain how the fabric of space and time
is warped by mass that necessitates that
space and time are continuous the
mathematics simply doesn't work if space
and time are discrete but quantum
physics says they are these two theories
explain just about everything in physics
every other physical Theory must conform
to general relativity or to quantum
theory no experiment we've ever done has
shown that quantum theory is from no
experiment we've ever done shows that
general relativity is wrong even their
simple denials they always work but we
know that they can't
the day will come when they will both be
shown to be false this must be the dress
I
so let's construct our raft now let me
take our frequency in banking voltage
and highlight them let me go to chance
she's got a chart to Marx get up you
change the size now values they seem to
be not exactly on a straight line but we
can't expect perfection these three dots
here look pretty good these three points
this one looks like a and have wire but
it's not so far away that I'm going to
ignore it let me I'll take the great
ability of Excel to draw a train line
through those points so this is a line
of speak now okay so he is my graph
I've got banking voltage on the y-axis
and
frequency in Hertz
on the x-axis the gradient of my line
according to the excel is 4 times 10 to
the power of -15 the units of that will
be 4 times 10 to the power of minus 15
joules the inners the gradient of my
graph is 4 times 10 to the power minus
15 so let me write that you M equals H
bar equal to
four times ten to the power of -15 so
four times ten to the power of one 16
multiplied by E is equal to H that's
simply by substituting what I had here
which comes from back here okay my hair
my brain of my line is Planck's constant
divided by the charge of electron the
gradient on my graph came to me by Excel
is four times ten to the power of minus
16 so four times 10 to power minus 15 is
equal to H over E or any time thought
about 10 to power minus 15 equals hatch
now what is a one point six oh nine
times ten to power of minus 19 so let's
do that calculation so Excel to do that
for me equals four times one point six
oh nine times 10 to power 19 and the
answer I get is six point four three six
times 10 to power of minus 34 the actual
value of Planck's constant is 6 point 6
2 6 times 10 to power of minus theta4 so
not only what am i after right order
mange you
therefore I'm leaving only a few percent
of the true value now there's another
way that I can use this graph and
perhaps make a little more user-friendly
there's something that the self can do
which is forecast forward and forecast
backward now I might want to do that
because I might want to see what the
value of the x-intercept happens to be I
know the y-intercept is sure that's over
here that's my B okay Mike while work
function is given by this number here
minus one point two nine zero nine volts
so I'm going to just change the values
that I've got here in a very simple way
so instead of having them written as
four point eight nine eight five
seventy-five time to take the power of
14 which is what appears in this cell
this cell this cell I'm going to take
out the time to 10 to the power of 14
and put them into a new table down here
so here is the same values that I have
here I'm just going to move the whole
table yeah
and so this is for my line content of
our 14500
fourteen six point nine and seven
cameras okay now I can do much the same
thing I'm just going to do I sketch out
again same as before this time draw a
straight line and notice that what
brings up
aside from allowing me to display the
equation on the chart is also the option
to the forecast water backwards and in
fact that we had for the previous graph
that I do but when you're using such
more big numbers rather on the x-axis it
doesn't like to forecast I don't know
why but let's do down watch what happens
down here their forecast backwards it
goes the line being extended it goes
again again and we can go to a maximum
of
yeah what can I see here a few things on
the first the great tells me something
about what planck's constant-- ears okay
grading is actually take over II I also
know what work function is that's the
y-intercept so down here at minus one
point something
and according to my graph goes minus one
point two nine very close to one minus
one point straight so what is that one
point three minus one point three is
exactly the energy required to remove an
electron from the surface of cesium
metal it's a measurement of the first
ionization energy or it's analogous to
what else does the ground tell us this
really is the punchline of the whole
experiment
it's when the graph crosses the x-axis
this is Ana this one here this point
highlighted is for the blue filter the
most energetic of the photons that we
used
here's the yellow filter
the orange the Rachel so as we get less
and less energy from those photons the
frequency of the first one is going to
come but also the voltage of the
electrons is going down now I don't have
a filter that is that allows short
wavelength than blue but we can imagine
what we get we have shorter wavelengths
and word I don't have wavelengths longer
than red what does that matter so
infrared would be down here somewhere
and so if I only have a point around
here then I don't have an extremely low
voltage indeed they will come a
frequency a particular filter which
would permit any photons to be emitted
in other words there is some minimum
critical frequency we're going to call
it the threshold frequency where if you
have photons with less energy then
refresh threshold frequency you simply
won't get photo emission you won't get
the emission of electrons from that
surface this violates the classical
theory of life because it means that
there are certain photons that no matter
how many of them you send at a surface
of metal you won't get emission of
electrons it doesn't matter the number
it doesn't matter how strong the light
that you shine if you're live is
infrared and it was a thousand watts
you're not going to get
and electrons from the service of
caesium you need an electron which is
more energetic than that looks like it's
somewhere between three and four it's a
little bit higher than 3.5 let's call
about 3.6 3.6 times 10 to the power 14
Hertz is approximately the energy of an
electron that you need at minimum to
remove an electron from the surface of a
metal of cesium the surface of the most
metals easier if you have a photon which
has an energy of 2 times 10 to the power
14 Hertz it doesn't have enough energy
and so even if you have 50 trillion
trillion trillion trillion of those
electrons a super powerful laser beam of
those photons that will not cause the
emission of electrons why because it
depends upon the fields
why does this prove that life is
particle because again if life was alive
then we shouldn't have a cutoff
frequency we should not have this
threshold this cutoff frequency
tells us that it doesn't matter how long
you wait if you don't have enough energy
in a single photon the electron won't
burn me to the electron cannot gradually
absorb energy from low energy photons it
can't if light was allowed we've
gradually absorb their energy there must
be something wrong with the wave theory
of light don't say something wrong with
it it is completely false
the truth is reflect refract interview
diffract that was the topic